Now let's look at a function
that makes use of lists.
First of all,
I'm going to define two lists.
Here's a list that has one A in it, and
here's a list that has four A's in it.
I want to write a function that's just
going to count the number of A's in
the list.
And this is it.
Count A.
To run it, type count_a of and
then we'll pass it a list.
Now.
And it says there one
letter A is in the list.
we'll say count A less one,
we'll get four letter As in the list.
These are correct.
Let's see how that works.
First of all, we start off by
setting a counter equal to zero.
We're going to count one, two, three,
four, five, however many letters,
A, and we have to start with zero count.
When we go through the loop
a number of times,
and then when we get out of the loop,
we're going to make use of that count and
print our count letters A in the list.
Now let's see how the loop works.
This says for every letter in a list, so
it's going to look at the first letter
in a list, and then later it's going to
look to the next letter in a list and
the next letter in a list.
If that letter is an A,
we use the double equals for
a comparison,
we're going to add one to count.
Then we're going to double back and a get
it another letter, compared it to A and
then add one to count if it is a letter A.
If it's not a letter
A we won't do anything.
That's the way the function works.
Now let's look at the various
aspects of writing this loop.
First of all, there was the initialization
of this list counter, CT.
Next we went to the loop
a number of times, and
in the loop we changed that counter.
And then when we got out we
made use of the counter here.
So those three parts.
Initialize the counter, change the counter
every time through the loop, and
then print the result out.
This is a design pattern that you will see
over and over and over again in loops.
Now I want you to write a function
that makes use of a loop and
makes use of a list.
This exercise is to write a function
that computes the average
of the numbers in the list.
That means that you're going to have
to write a loop that steps through each
element in the list, you're going to
have to add up these elements,
you're going to have to
count those elements, and
then you're going to have to
divide that sum by the count.
Here are a couple of test lists that
you can use to test your function.
This list should have an average of 41.5,
this list should have
an average of minus 9.215.
Here's my run, this is a run on n list.
I listed the elements, I computed
the average, and I wrote the count.
Here is my run on our r list,
and I wrote each element out.
Here's the average and here's the count.
Now why did I write each element out?
Well, often when you go through a list,
you miss the first element or
the last element.
And if you write the list out ,you
can be sure that you got them all.
For example, n list starts with two and
ends with one.
Mine starts with two and ends with one,
so I know I got the whole list.
Our list starts with 3.14 and
ends with four.
Here's 3.14 and here's four, so
I know I got the whole list.
And your function should
be average numlist and
use numlist as your list
of variables throughout.
Don't use end list because
it'll only work on this list.
Don't use our r list because
it'll only work on this r list.
You've got to use a variable
that will work on both of them.
Now you write this function and
press Continue when you're finished and
I'll show you my solution.
Here's my solution, and
there are others by the way.
Define average numlist colon now I
start off with the sum equals zero,
and I write an underscore here because sum
is a keyword and I want to use sum but
I don't want to use the keyword.
For i in the range from zero
to the length of the list.
This is one way to step through the list.
Go through the proper number of times and
add to that,
I'm going to take sum,
sum plus the number.
And that will give me a new sum.
And then I'm going to print
the number that I just used.
I got all of these.
And then the average is going to be
the sum divided by the length of the list.
Now I'm going to print average is and
I'll print the average.
Its count is n under the note.
That's one way to do this.